==Maintenance scripts==

;backup_drupal.sh &lt;instance&gt; ["comment"]
:Backup drupal installation and database.

;reset_drupal.sh
:Reset drupal instance to prior code and db state (edit and insert instance + backup directory to restore).

;mk_drupal_base_inst.sh &lt;instance&gt;
:Creates a drupal instance from a default installations saved filesystem and db.

;update_drupal_inst.sh <nowiki><instance> [--branch <branch>] [<tag>]</nowiki>
:Update a drupal instance from git master branch (default), specified branch or tag.

;mk_labs_testinst.sh &lt;instance&gt;
:Creates a NEW development/test instance for cms drupal application from site alias (directory must be empty, database gets created/OVERRIDDEN).

;recreate_drupal_dev.sh
:Copies (OVERRIDES) the drupal filesystem and database from the @prod to the @dev instance (uses drush aliases)


==Drupal quick&amp;dirty test environment==

Sets up very quickly a plain Drupal test environment with an own web server.

Directory for install: <tt>/tmp/drupal_qd/drupal</tt>. SQLite database <tt>/tmp/drupal_qd/drupal.sqlite</tt>

Install with projects (enables modules with the same name):

  drush -y qd drupal  \
    uuid entity deploy features  \
    --root=/tmp/drupal_qd/drupal  \
    --no-server  \
    --account-pass=secret

(The <tt>--enable</tt> parameter is not used because seems to prevent execution of dependency checking.)

Run server on an IP acessible from outside (without starting a browser locally):

  drush --root=/tmp/drupal_qd/drupal rs 192.168.56.12:8888  -


==Features==

Features can managed almost entirely via drush. Setting a version number and incrementing it can be done easily.

===Create a feature via drush===

Export an arbitrary component (e.g., dependencies:rdfx)

  drush fe labs --destination=sites/all/modules/custom --version-set=7.x-1.0 dependencies:rdfx

===Add a component to a feature via drush===

  drush fe labs --version-increment dependencies:uuid

===Display available components===

All components:

  drush fc '*'

Selected components:

  drush fc 'variable:*'
  drush fc '*:*labs*'

The feature(s), which provide a component already, are indicated.


==Konfiguration Mehrsprachigkeit==

für den Entity Translation Ansatz:

* Module (gem. [http://www.lullabot.com/articles/localized-and-multi-lingual-content-drupal-7 Anleitung]) runterladen und installieren
* Node und Taxonomy in Entity Translation Config aktivieren
* add permission "Translate entities of type Taxonomy term"
* Beim content type
** multilingual "Enabled, with entity translation" aktivieren
** in Manage Fields bei "title" replace anklicken
* bei taxonomy xyz
** magage fields, replace name and description

===Benutzersprache===

default auf (angezeigt) "Englisch" stehen lassen reicht nicht, man muss die Sprache einmal explizit speichern


==div==

===Reset Admin Password===

  drush user-password username --password="new_password"

nach [http://drupal.org/node/1023428 Recovering your Drupal 7 administrator account password]

